Wait.
What is it?
It stings a little.
Bear with it.
Didn't you say you were leaving?
I've been getting things ready for you.
Clothes. Shoes.
Banknotes.
Easier to carry on the road.
And the divorce…
The divorce letter.
Just missing your thumbprint.
How thoughtful.
If you leave,
there has to be some
proper closure between us.
That way, whatever you do later,
you won't be tied down.
My affairs are none of your concern.
What about you?
What are you going to do?
I told you before.
If Lin'an stays peaceful,
I'll build a pig pen.
Raise pigs. Slaughter pigs. Sell pork.
That's not what I meant.
If I truly leave,
will you marry someone?
Or take another husband?
Marry or take a husband?
That can wait.
Life must go on either way.
Very well.
When you decide what sort
you prefer, tell me.
I'll keep an eye out for you.
Just not someone so cold and stubborn.
With that sharp tongue of yours,
you'd better worry about
whether anyone will want you.
None of your concern.
And if I do marry,
it won't be someone like you.
At the very least, she'll be gentle,
virtuous, capable of running a household.
Naturally.
I've always preferred
the refined type.
Well read. Smiles easily.
We did go through hardship together.
At least wish me a refined gentleman.
Fine.
Then may you have your wish.
I'm going.
Have you lost your senses?
Was it really that awful?
You're leaving anyway,
so why cross the line now?
Cross the line?
If I truly meant to,
I wouldn't have waited this long.
You truly like those pretentious scholars?
You truly want someone like Song Yan?
Who do you think you are?
You leave when you please.
You kiss when you feel like.
Do it.
You have terrible taste in men.
You're better off coming with me
than marrying a snake later.
My taste is terrible.
That's why I saved you.
I have an enemy.
Either he dies
or I do.
Give me one year.
If I fail,
someone will send word to you.
-You may remarry then--
-Who do you think you are?
You call Song Yan a snake.
And you're any better?
You take liberties with me.
You claim you care for me.
And you expect me to wait?
Who do you think you are?
You saved me here.
Now you abandon me here.
I guess that's closure.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
HAVE A FULL MEAL
When he was here, he barely spoke.
Why does it feel so quiet…
now that he's gone?
Happy birthday.
May you live long and worry-free.
Such simple words.
Was he afraid I wouldn't
recognize the characters?
How did you hurt your wrist?
Yesterday, while hauling pigs,
the ox cart overturned.
I used my hand to brace myself
and sprained it.
Her wrist often hurts.
Slaughtering pigs is very tiring.
We men wear these wrist guards
for heavy labor.
They are not for young ladies.
You won't find any.
THE TERRITORIAL MAP OF DAYIN
Xie Zheng is alive.
Why won't he just die?
He did this on purpose.
He stood aside until the empire
descended into chaos,
then emerged only to make a fool of me.
Marquis Wu'an has long stayed hidden.
There must be a deeper scheme behind it.
The Xie Army and the Yanzhou troops
have never been easy to command.
If you remain in the northwest now,
you'll be on the chopping block.
It would be wiser
to return to the capital first.
Commander!
You think I'm afraid of him?
I'll stay right here.
Let's see what he dares do to me!
I'd never imply that.
Young Lord.
Young Lord, please
don't let pride guide you.
This is not the moment
to confront Marquis Wu'an.
We must first bring word of his survival
back to the capital.
Everything must serve
the Chancellor's greater design.
If not for my father,
I would never let Xie Zheng off so easily.
Young Lord's filial devotion is exemplary.
YIN
Your Majesty,
today the court is filled with debate
over the unrest in the northwest.
I dare not claim credit before the throne,
but there is one matter I must raise.
Grand Tutor, speak freely.
For reasons unknown,
Commissioner Wei Xuan detained General He.
It nearly provoked civil unrest
in Qingping County.
May I ask
whether Chancellor Wei
was aware of this matter?
General He's situation
concerns military affairs at the front.
Wei Xuan's memorial
has yet to arrive.
Why is the Grand Tutor so eager
to step forward?
What exactly are you insinuating?
Do you seek to make something
out of nothing?
Or to cast blame where it does not belong?
I would never dare.
Chancellor Wei should not
make such accusations.
Your Majesty, I have joyful news.
Marquis Wu'an
still lives.
Marquis Wu'an is alive?
GUARD YOUR THOUGHTS
Chancellor Wei, congratulations.
If the Marquis has truly survived,
it will bolster morale
and make the rebels think twice.
Yes, yes.
Congratulations indeed, Chancellor Wei.
Your trusted general returns.
A most fortunate occasion.
Yes, yes.
Esteemed ministers,
this calls for celebration
throughout the realm for seven days…
Five days?
Three days may be best.
Well…
How many days should it be?
I concur.
We haven't even settled on a number.
What are you concurring with?
Your Majesty,
Marquis Wu'an is young.
His merits are modest.
The realm need not be disturbed.
This humble subject
cannot accept such honor.
Chancellor Wei,
setting aside Marquis Wu'an's
distinguished service,
young as he may be,
he is His Majesty's marquis,
not merely your nephew.
Could it be that His Majesty's favor
matters less than your modest refusal?
If that is the case,
very well.
I shall accept on the Marquis's behalf.
We thank Your Majesty for your grace.
XIGU ALLEY
No! Mother!
My son!
Don't take him!
Move it.
Go.
Move.
Be careful out there.
Don't try to be a hero on the battlefield.
You're not young anymore.
Being afraid of dying isn't shameful.
Don't worry.
The God of War from Xigu Alley
doesn't fall that easily.
Keep up.
-Hurry up.
-Move.
Changyu's been in a foul mood these days.
I didn't tell her.
She's not even home right now.
I definitely didn't tell Changning.
Better they don't know.
Best they don't.
When I earn some spoils at the front,
I'll come back
and buy you a gold bracelet.
I don't want gold.
I want you alive.
-We already lost our son.
-Move.
You cannot be taken from me too.
You come back safe. You hear me?
-I will. I won't die so easily.
-Keep up!
I'm going.
Come back safe.
Yuanbao,
what about my little sister?
If I leave, who's going to look after her?
Keep walking.
Yuanbao, we're not really
being sent to die, are we?
If I die, I'll never see my mother again.
Take that back. Don't speak ill fortune.
Foolish word, let it be unheard.
-Go strong. Come back whole.
-Move.
-Mrs. Zhao.
-Go.
-Pass a message to Fan Changyu.
-Up.
-If she looks after our families,
when we return,
we'll serve her to the end of our days.
-I will.
-Move.
We'll serve her forever.
-I will tell her.
-Get up.
Hurry up. Move.
Keep up.
Stop following.
-What are you doing?
-Madam Song.
-Madam Song, help me.
-Let go.
-Madam Song.
-Let go first.
-Madam Song!
I'm begging you.
Madam Song.
Please go to the magistrate
and plead for my eldest grandson,
Kang Dan.
His father already died at the front.
He's barely grown.
You know,
if something happens to him,
how am I supposed to go on?
I beg you.
-Kang, get up.
-Madam Song.
Please.
Get up first. We'll talk.
Kang, serving the court is a man's duty.
Besides, everyone has their own fate.
You should send him off proudly.
Let him serve the state.
That way, he won't shame the court.
Song!
Then why don't you send
Song Yan to the front?
Why does he get to avoid conscription?
You insolent woman.
Listen carefully.
My son is a scholar.
And studying in the capital
is also service to the state.
Do you understand?
Bring it.
Fine.
For old times' sake,
take this.
Call it a token of my goodwill.
-See yourself out.
-You…
Go away.
-Milady.
-Move.
Stop following.
-Go back.
-Don't take him!
Changyu.
Changyu, you're finally back.
If only you'd come sooner,
you could have seen Zhao one last--
No. I take that back.
What nonsense am I saying?
What happened?
Jizhou started conscription.
They took Zhao.
-They took him?
-Yes.
Jin Yuanbao and his men
were all seized too.
How could this happen?
Anyone inside?
-Anyone inside?
-Yes.
Yes.
-Which household is the Fan family?
-That's mine.
Any grown men here?
No.
Her husband left town. He won't be back
for at least a year.
The same old excuse.
-Search the place.
-Yes.
-Move.
-Wait.
This household was already inspected.
Her husband must've been among the men
taken on the road.
My… My husband was taken?
You're certain?
Is your husband named Yan Zheng?
Yes.
Where is he now?
Can I see him?
He was seized outside town.
Wouldn't have had time to pack a thing.
They've already marched
with the main force
toward Lucheng.
If you leave for them now,
I am not sure you'll catch up.
Withdraw.
Mrs. Zhao, I'm heading out.
Changyu, where are you going?
Yan Zheng. You'd better wait for me.
LIN'AN
Move.
Yan Zheng!
The gates are sealed. Only conscripts
may leave. No civilians out of Lin'an.
-Sir, just a delivery. I'll be right back.
-Not allowed.
I'm too late.
Son, your father…
My lord, take this coat.
Take it.
Mr. Zhao.
Changyu.
This old fool picked the wrong trade.
Learned to treat animals when I was young.
Now I work wood in my old age.
The officer says
when I reach camp,
I can serve as a horse doctor,
forge iron,
and even repair siege engines.
Mr. Zhao.
Take this horse.
Where did you get a horse?
Bought it off Blacksmith Chen.
They say horses are prized in the army.
If you bring it along,
they'll treat you better.
Fine horse.
A very fine horse.
-Move.
-I'm going, Changyu.
Move along.
Mr. Zhao, this bundle is for Yan Zheng.
-I couldn't find him.
-Go.
If you make it to Lucheng
and you see him, please give this to him.
Don't worry, Changyu.
As long as I'm still breathing,
I'll see it delivered.
-Take care of yourself.
-I will.
-Take care!
-I'm going!
WEI'S RESIDENCE
HOLD FAST TO FIRST RESOLVE
Father.
Xie Zheng is still alive.
I came back especially
to offer my congratulations.
A border commander
repeatedly defies orders,
forcibly drafts civilians, and launches
an unauthorized assault on Chongzhou.
That is a grave crime.
You should
prepare yourself for punishment.
I am not afraid of death.
I rushed back only to inform you.
Xie Zheng and He Jingyuan
are in collusion.
Collusion?
One is my nephew.
The other serves under my command.
How is that collusion?
You are simply afraid
that once Xie Zheng returns to Yanzhou,
he will repay you
for that arrow you loosed at him.
That is why you fled back here.
Even now, you still shield
that traitorous ingrate.
I only regret that arrow
failed to kill him.
I merely did what you wanted
but lacked the resolve to do.
If one day he truly kills me,
would that make you happy?
Insolence.
Speaking to the Chancellor like this
is a grave offense.
The Chancellor.
He is your husband.
Yet you never call him that.
Had you grown distant, I'd understand.
But you revere your husband above all,
treat Xie Zheng as your own son,
and let Father treat me as nothing.
Why is that?
Remember this well.
Without the Chancellor,
you would have nothing today.
If I were Nezha,
I'd returned my flesh to you
than owe you my life.
Xuan.
Xuan was disrespectful.
He spoke out of turn.
I ask that the Chancellor
take care of his health
and not trouble himself over this matter.
It does not matter.
Zheng is alive.
Zheng lives?
Zheng truly lives.
Heaven has been kind.
The Chancellor's fortune runs deep.
At last, you have an heir.
WEI'S RESIDENCE
Chancellor, now that
Xie Zheng has survived,
the situation in the northwest
may soon change.
Please give your instructions.
Go to the northwest immediately.
Test his attitude.
See where Xie Zheng truly stands.
As for He Jingyuan,
he knew Xie Zheng lived,
yet concealed it
and joined forces with him.
Find out what exactly he's plotting.
Yes.
Prince Changxin attempted
to use refugees to breach Jizhou.
That plan failed.
He will strike again.
With He Jingyuan holding Lucheng,
who will now
oversee Jizhou's affairs?
Li Huai'an, perhaps?
If I am correct,
He Jingyuan's memorial requesting orders
is already on its way here.
Li Huai'an and He Jingyuan
are master and disciple.
Could it be that Li Xing
laid out this arrangement
17 years ago?
Hardly. It is merely circumstance
meeting opportunity.
Back in the Eastern Palace,
I and Grand Tutor Tao
handled civil affairs.
In military matters, there were
Xie Linshan and General Meng.
Li Xing was nothing more
than a court jester.
Then could He Jingyuan truly betray you
and side with the Li clan?
Unlikely.
He Jingyuan values loyalty above all else.
The Lis will not find it easy
to lay their hands
on Jizhou.
Go to the northwest.
Bring back clearer answers.
Yes.
Seventeen years.
Has the moment of reckoning come again?
‎XIE
Marquis Wu'an! Marquis Wu'an!
Marquis, that wound on your face…
-Ask no more.
-Is that injury
-Mrs. Fan's handiwork?
-Out.
-All of you, outside.
-Yes, sir.
-Did she turn you away? Tell me.
-You too.
Me too?
Xie Zheng, you…
No. I'm staying.
Marquis, word from the capital.
Wei Sheng is already on his way here.
So he knows I'm alive.
Sooner than I expected.
Prince Changxin has withdrawn
from Chongzhou.
His next target will be Lucheng.
He Jingyuan is rallying reinforcements.
Prince Changxin trusts
the Sui brothers most.
Sui Yuanhuai and Sui Yuanqing.
If the Yanzhou army
moves to reinforce Lucheng,
the choke point
is Baxia.
Baxia.
So Mrs. Fan really did hit you.
Ow, ow, that hurts…
Careful.
-Mrs. Zhao.
-Ms. Yu. Bao'er.
I thought it was you. It really is.
It's been a while. Come in.
Thank you, Mrs. Zhao.
I came to see Changyu. Is she home?
She took Changning to visit
Jin Yuanbao's family.
She brought them some grain.
They'll be back soon.
There she is.
Qian. What brings you here?
-Changning!
-Changyu.
Come inside. It's freezing out here.
Quick, come in.
-Let's go.
-You two haven't seen each other in ages.
Go on, play.
-Come on.
-I won't go inside.
I came to say goodbye.
We're leaving.
Why?
Sit. Tell me properly.
-Come here.
-Coming.
-Here. Have some tea.
-Thanks, Mrs. Zhao.
A few days ago, my housekeeper's body
was found in the snow.
I reported it to the authorities.
They said it was likely bandits.
Did you notice anything strange?
I can't say for sure.
But I haven't felt at ease since.
Jizhou is in turmoil.
No one knows if Lucheng will hold.
Most of the merchants have already fled.
I'm leaving for the south.
The trunks are nearly packed.
We leave tomorrow.
I heard Yan Zheng was conscripted.
Why not bring Ning and leave with us?
I'll go first.
I can climb too.
Thank you for thinking of me.
But I can't go.
Yan Zheng was taken to Lucheng.
I have to stay and wait for him.
Mrs. Zhao is waiting for her husband too.
She only has me now.
I can't leave her at a time like this.
Take care of yourself.
Safe travels.
XIGU ALLEY
-This is for you.
-She can't take it.
It's too valuable.
Let Ning keep it.
This one's Bao'er's favorite.
Who knows when we'll meet again.
But I don't have anything to give you.
I want that.
Mr. Zhao made me this cricket
before he left.
He's gone to war.
No one will make me crickets anymore.
Keep it safe.
If one day you no longer want it,
bring it back and trade for your pendant.
I'll treasure it.
I always carry this.
Now it's yours.
There's sleeping powder inside.
If you're ever in danger,
throw it and run.
We're leaving now.
Take care.
Bao'er, come.
The falcon's gone.
Zheng's gone.
Mr. Zhao's gone.
Bao'er's gone.
I miss them.
You still have me. And Mrs. Zhao.
When the war is over,
they'll all come back.
Master, a messenger from Prince Changxin.
An urgent letter from him.
You've come far. Thank you.
URGENT DISPATCH
Your brilliant scheme resulted
in Jizhou's grain being seized,
for nothing.
With Lucheng on the brink of battle,
return at once.
The Prince is in a rage.
You should depart immediately
and head to Lucheng.
Naturally.
Has the heir been located?
Not yet.
I take my leave.
Master, that was
Prince Changxin's trusted man.
How do we explain this?
He was never here.
What is there to explain?
Prepare the carriage. We leave tomorrow.
For Lucheng?
No. We're going to find her.
And that little bastard.
Run! Bandits! Help!
This way.
And you are?
‎NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
‎IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang